Set up for the test runner window and test classes.
The source code for the test framework is available through the package manager.
You can add the package searching for test framework, import the test framework and optionally import
code coverage.
Tooling The Unity Test framework includes all the libraries needed to test your CE code.
Now, as an individual or a team, if you're new to testing, you don't have to test all of your code
at once.
You can slowly, over time start testing the more of your code that is covered with tests, the better
you'll have more confidence some ways you can integrate it into your team that's nice and easy.
Are adding tests only for new features or add testing to key systems before a major refactor.
And a great way to get started is testing just during bug fixes.
If a user reports a bug, you first replicate the existence of the bug with a failing test.
Then you fix the code and the test passes.
You can leave this test behind as a legacy.
So you're sure that that bug doesn't return in the future?
The concept of code coverage refers to how much of your code base is covered with tests.
If you have one class and three methods in your entire project and all three of them have tests, then
you have 100% coverage.
Generally speaking, the higher the coverage, the better.
You can open up that code coverage window, run your tests, and you get robust results showing you
not just the percentage per class and system, but within every class.
You get a line by line readout of which methods have coverage and which don't.
It's very useful.
You can track how much of your code is being tested, locate any vulnerabilities you have during your
testing process, and also monitor your increasing coverage over time.
With those libraries installed, you can create your first test, open up the test run window, create
a test folder, and your assets create your first class and your first method in that class.
At that point, those tests will show up in the test run or window where you can click, run and see
them execute.
Here's an example of a test class with a test method.
Notice it looks like pretty normal.
C Sharpe The test attribute shown there in the square brackets is the secret sauce.
Here, the system looks for any methods marked with that attribute to consider it a test.
As I mentioned, testing is an art form and there's many different ways to approach it.
A nice device I use is within each method to divide it up into three sections.
Arrange, act and assert.
In arrange you do one or more lines that's required to set up the test.
In the act portion, you execute whatever it is that's specifically related to the test, and then you
do the assert.
Asserting means to assume something is true.
So the testing framework comes in assert library.
Imagine we have a custom math system that allows you to add two numbers.
Together.
We could assert that the sum of five plus ten equals 15, and we'd consider that a successful test.
We'd run it and see that it passes.
Let's see this in action.
I'll open up a unity project that's got a test ready.
We'll take a look at how it works and run the test.
Here we are in an empty unity project.
I'll begin by setting up the test framework.
So I'll open the package manager.
The package manager shows which packages are already installed.
It's possible that the project you begin with already has the test framework added.
But if it doesn't, here's how you can add it yourself.
Search in the Unity Registry for test framework and install the latest version.
Next for optional additional features, search the Unity Registry for code coverage and install code
coverage has some optional samples.
I won't install them here.
Now reviewing the packages we have in the project, we see both the test framework and optionally if
you chose to install IT coding coverage.
Now this project is fully compatible to have unit testing.
To get started.
We'll open up the test runner window.
The test runner window has two tabs, edit mode and play mode.
Because we have no tests added.
The window is very helpful and offers some clickable creation options to make tests for us.
In a later demo, I'll show how to create tests from scratch.
For now, I'll just paste one in that I have already prepared.
The testing shown here was pasted in from the Mini MVCs sample project.
For the course.
To help us focus, I removed everything except the test we want to look at.
Let's explore the test, run our windows, starting with the edit mode here in the edit mode tab.
By default, all of the tests in the project are listed here in the edit mode tab.
By default, all the tests available anywhere in the assets folder and packages folder are shown.
You can filter by category to see only some of the tests.
We don't have many tests here, but just for demo sake, I'll choose the category for our samples.
Now the window shows a hierarchy of all the tests organized by namespace.
When I expand all at the lower levels, I see the test class and then a test method under.
We can run all the tests and see that they pass.
We can select an individual test and run the selected.
Whether the test passes or fails, we have an easy way to get to the source code with a right click
menu.
Here's the complete test code.
This is the same we saw earlier in the presentation.
Let's go over the highlights.
We have an optional category attribute that helps organize our testing.
That dropdown that I showed, filters based on this value, you can have many test classes that are
in the same category.
You can have many test classes that are in the same category.
Then we have the test attribute.
This is what tells the test framework that this method is actually a test method.
Without this, it won't show up in the test runner window.
Then we use the familiar but optional paradigm of a range act and assert this is just a way that I use
as a convention to organize my test logic.
Also, when I name my tests, I choose to name them based on what is under the test, what is the expectation
and what is the situation.
So here I'm testing the ADD method that the result will be 15 when I pass five and ten as the operands.
Let's tab over to play mode.
The play mode tab looks very similar and it looks like it's showing the exact same test, but it's not.
I'll open the source.
Here's the source code for a play mode test.
So how is this different?
The primary difference is where it's located in the project window.
I'll show that in a moment.
An optional difference I choose is that for my tests in play mode, I append the class with play mode
test, whereas in ed mode I just append with test that helps me organize.
Now here for demo sake, I'm testing the exact same behavior once in edit mode and once in play mode.
That's probably not necessary for you.
You instead test by default in edit mode and only use play mode testing when you need to capture play
mode events such as start awake or game object functionality, collision detection, other things that
only happen at runtime.
As discussed in the course, I use the same method naming convention we saw before.
Let's note two.
Let's note two key differences here.
We use a unity test attribute, not a test attribute, as we saw before, and in addition to a range
act and assert there's an optional a weight paradigm.
This is used here just to demonstrate the fact that while edit mode tests execute synchronously play
mode tests can execute asynchronously.
So if you have any code that requires asynchronous testing, play mode is a great option.
Let's take a look at the project window to see the organization.
Notice that the edit mode test is in an editor folder and notice that the play mode test is in a runtime
folder.
That difference together with the differences in the assembly definition files adjacent to these tests
is how the system knows that one is an editor test and one is a play mode test.
I'll run the play mode tests.
Finally, I'll run the play mode test.
The test runner window behaves the same with one exception because these are play mode tests.
Unity will create an anonymous scene, execute the test in isolation, and then destroy the scene.
While this all happens quite rapidly, you'll notice it happening here as a plus, as a press run all
instead of running all the tests in one millisecond.
For example, as the edit mode may do here, it takes several milliseconds to execute.
Here we got a chance to see a test running, seeing the test runner window and seeing the basics.
Next, let's take a look at how we'd create our own tests.